in this lesson i want to explore the
functionality and usage of azure
blueprints
they're very often we're going to have a
certain configuration
i want to be able to apply maybe to
multiple different subscriptions
and i can think about this idea of a
blueprint of what we want to apply
now this can consist of a number of
different types of artifacts now if we
think about how do we create things well
we create things in resource groups
and how do we ideally create things well
we apply arm
templates
now when we create those things it's
very common we want to apply some kind
of role-based access control
so a role assignment
and we also may want to apply policy
to have certain controls
and i cannot have multiple instances of
these objects so a blueprint is a
collection of these types of artifacts
creation of resource groups
deployment of arm templates
and then i can assign role-based access
control and policy to help control
and then i
assign this to
a subscription
so i have a subscription
and what i'm now going to do is assign
that blueprint now when i do that
assignment i have a number of different
options for that
i might say
i want to put this blueprint in place
but then
i don't really care what they do they
could go and modify all of those things
so i could say don't lock
i don't care what happens after i've
assigned the blueprint they could delete
the stuff change it completely up to
them
i might say you know i don't want them
to delete it
but they can modify
so i could say do not delete
or i could say i don't want you to
change anything about what i assigned
with this blueprint in which case i
could set it to read only
so i have these options for how i assign
the blueprint
when i assign a blueprint i actually
have different versions i have version
control on my blueprint and then i
publish it when i'm ready and i can
update that assignment with whatever
changes i've made
now to protect the assignment of the
blueprint and enforce this because often
people might be owners of this
subscription so ordinarily they'd be
able to override what i do
so blueprints are the one time
we commonly see deny assignments so the
way it enforces this is actually a deny
assignment that i cannot override even
if i'm the owner of that particular
subscription i would have to either
change the blueprint or unassign the
blueprint from that target subscription
so if we jump over and look at this
we can quickly search for our blueprints
i've created a very simple definition
and all i've done is really demonstrate
the different types
so i'm assigning a policy
we can see here i've got a policy
assignment
apply a tag and its default value
i then create a resource group
i then assign an r back
giving this network admins group the
contributor role and i assign an arm
template
now again i could create multiple
resource groups with different types of
resource inside and different policies
and different rbac this is just a very
very simple one
you can see i have published versions so
i've modified them and i can update
those assignments and then we actually
have the idea of well i can assign that
blueprint
or i could see existing ones i already
have
now when i do that assignment
i get to pick how do i want to assign it
so i pick the target subscription
i pick the version that i want to
apply
but then we have that idea of the lock
assignment
default is don't lock ie they could
modify delete whatever i do
but i could also say hey you can change
it but don't delete it
or
make it read only
and again these are all at the arm
control plane level it doesn't impact
the data plane so if i had a storage
account i created for example and said
read only
well they can't modify the properties of
the storage account they can still go
and interact with blobs and create blobs
and delete blobs and all of those other
things
so this is the idea of a blueprint
it's the ability to define a
configuration that can then stamp down
on multiple different subscriptions
either as just a starter set that they
can then do what they want with or maybe
there's a core set of resources i want
there and i maybe don't want them to
change it or just don't want them to
delete it so all of that is possible
with blueprints